Rewrote installation guide to use new reference config (#583)
digital-asset/docs.daml.com: docs/2.8.0/docs/canton/usermanual/installation.rst

This guide will guide you through the process of setting up your Canton nodes to build a distributed Daml

> ledger. You will learn

Author: fixed

> #. How to setup and configure an embedded or distributed domain

Author: fixed

> #. How to setup and configure a participant node

Author: fixed

#. How to connect a participant node to a domain

A single Canton process can run multiple nodes, which is very useful for testing and demonstration. In a

> production environment, you would typically run one node per process.

Author: fixed

This guide uses the reference configurations you can find in the release bundle under ``config``
and explains you how to leverage these examples for your purposes. Therefore, any file named in this guide

> will refer to subdirectories of the reference configuration example.

Author: fixed

Downloading Canton
------------------

The Canton Open Source version is available from `Github <https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases>`__.

Daml Enterprise includes an enterprise version of the Canton ledger. If you have entitlement to Daml Enterprise
you can download the enterprise version of Canton by following the `Installing Daml Enterprise instructions
<https://docs.daml.com/getting-started/installation.html#installing-the-enterprise-edition>`__ and downloading the
appropriate Canton artifact.

> You can also use our Daml Enterprise Canton Docker images by following our :ref:`Docker instructions <docker-instructions>`.

Author: fxed

If you want to build up a test-network for yourself, you need at least a participant node and a domain.

In the following, we assume that you are running all commands in the root directory of the release bundle:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd ./canton-<type>-X.Y.Z

The Config Directory Contents
----------------------------

The config directory contains a set of reference configuration files, one per node type:

.. code-block:: none

  .
  └── config
        ├── shared.conf, sandbox.conf, participant.conf, domain.conf, sequencer.conf, mediator.conf
        ├── jwt
        ├── misc
        ├── monitoring
        ├── remote
        ├── storage
        ├── tls
        └── utils

- ``participant.conf``: a participant node configuration

> - ``sequencer.conf``, ``mediator.conf``, ``manager.conf``: a sequencer, mediator and manager node configuration for a Daml

Author: fixed

  Enterprise domain deployment.
- ``domain.conf``: an embedded domain, which runs all the three domain processes in one node (the only open source domain option).
- ``sandbox.conf``: a simple setup for a single participant node connected to a single domain node, using in-memory stores for testing.

> On top of that you'll find the following files and directories:

Author: fixed

- ``shared.conf``: a shared configuration file that is included by all other configurations.
- ``jwt``: contains JWT configuration files for the Ledger API.
- ``misc``: contains miscellaneous configuration files useful for debugging and development.
- ``monitoring``: contains configuration files to enable metrics and tracing.

> - ``remote``: contains configurations files to connect to Canton console to remote nodes.

Author: yep, thanks.

data. You can choose not to persist data and instead use in-memory stores that are deleted on node restart,
or you can persist data using ``Postgres`` or ``Oracle`` databases.

For this purpose, there are some storage :ref:`mixin configurations <configuration-mixin>` (``config/storage/``) defined.

These storage mixins can be used with any of the node configurations. All the reference examples include the ``config/shared.conf``,

> which in term by default includes ``postgres.conf``. Alternatively, the in-memory configurations just work out of the

Author: ohhh ...

> box without further configuration, but won't persist any data. You can just need to change the include within

Author: fixed

    Please also consult the more :ref:`detailed section on persistence configurations <persistence-config>`.

> Canton will manage the database schema for you. You don't need to create any tables or indexes yourself.

Author: fixed

.. _persistence_using_postgres:

Persistence using Postgres
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While in-memory is great for testing and demos, for any production use, you'll need to use a database as a persistence layer.
Both the community version and the enterprise version support `Postgres <https://www.postgresql.org/>`__ as a persistence
layer. Daml Enterprise also supports :ref:`Oracle as the persistence backend <persistence-oracle>`, but we do recommend using Postgres, which we

> will use in the following.

Author: fixed

> Make sure you have a running Postgres server and create one database per node.

Author: fixed

Canton is tested on a selection of the `currently supported Postgres versions <https://www.postgresql.org/support/versioning/>`__.
See the `Canton release notes <https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases>`__ for the specific Postgres version
used to test a particular Canton release.

.. _postgres_helper:

Creating the Database and the User
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> In `util/postgres` you can find a script ``db.sh`` which helps you with configuring the database, and optionally

Author: fixed

> even start a Docker based Postgres instance. Assuming you have `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`__ installed, you

Author: fixed

can run:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd ./config/util/postgres
    ./db.sh start
    ./db.sh setup

The db.sh will read the connection settings from ``config/util/postgres/db.env`` if they aren't already set by environment variables.
The script will start a non-durable Postgres instance (use ``start durable`` if you want to keep the data between restarts),

> create the configured user and create the databases defined in ``config/util/postgres/databases``.

Author: fixed

> Other useful commands are

Author: fixed

- ``create-user``: To create the user as defined in ``db.env``.

> - ``resume``: To resume a previously stopped Docker based Postgres instance.

Author: fixed

- ``drop``: Drop the created databases.

Configure the Connectivity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can provide the connectivity settings either by editing the file ``config/storage/postgres.conf`` or by setting

> respective environment variables (see the file which ones need to be set):

Author: fixed

.. literalinclude:: /canton/includes/mirrored/community/app/pack/config/utils/postgres/db.env
    :start-after: user-manual-entry-begin: PostgresDbEnvConfiguration
    :end-before: user-manual-entry-end: PostgresDbEnvConfiguration

Tuning the Database
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Please note that Canton requires a properly sized and correctly configured database. Please consult

> our :ref:`Postgres performance guide <postgres-performance-tuning>` for further information.

Author: fixed

Generate the TLS Certificates
-----------------------------

The reference example configurations use TLS to secure the APIs. You can find the configuration files in

> ``config/tls``. The configuration files are split by different APIs. The configuration files are

Author: fixed

- ``tls-ledger-api.conf``: TLS configuration for the Ledger API, exposed by the participant node.
- ``mtls-admin-api.conf``: TLS configuration for the Administration API, exposed by all node types.
- ``tls-public-api.conf``: TLS configuration for the Public API, exposed by the sequencer and domain node.

The client authentication on the Public API is built in and cannot be disabled. It uses specific signing keys
associated with the node's identity. The Ledger API supports :ref:`JWT based authentication <ledger-api-jwt-configuration>`.
On the Admin API, you can enable mTLS. Please consult the :ref:`TLS documentation section <tls-configuration>` for
further information.

If you want to start with a simple setup, you can use the provided script ``config/tls/gen-test-certs.sh`` to generate
a set of self-signed certificates (which must include the correct SAN entries for the address the node will bind to).

Alternatively, you can also skip this step by commenting out the TLS includes in the respective configuration files.

Setting up a Participant
------------------------

> Now, you can start your participant by using one the reference example ``config/participant.conf``:

Author: fixed

#. By default, all APIs in Canton are only accessible from localhost. If you want to connect to your node from other
   machines, you need to bind to ``0.0.0.0`` instead of localhost. You can do this by setting
   ``address = 0.0.0.0`` or to the desired network name within the respective API configuration sections.

#. All nodes are managed through the administration API. If you use the console, almost all requests will

>    go through the administration API. We recommend that you setup mutual TLS authentication as described in

Author: fixed

   the :ref:`TLS documentation section <tls-configuration>`.

#. Applications and users will interact with the participant node using the ledger API. We recommend that you secure your
   API by using TLS. You should also :ref:`authorize your clients using JWT tokens <ledger-api-jwt-configuration>`.

>    The reference configuration contains a set of configuration files in ``config/jwt`` which you can use as a starting point.

Author: fixed

If you don't know how to connect to domains, onboard parties or provision Daml code, please read the
:ref:`getting started guide <canton-getting-started>`.

> Setting up a Synchronisation Domain

Author: fixed

-----------------------------------

Your participant node is now ready to connect to other participants to form a distributed ledger. The connection
is facilitated by a synchronisation domain, which is formed by three separate processes:

- a sequencer, which is responsible for ordering encrypted messages
- a mediator, which is responsible for aggregating validation responses by the individual participants

> - a domain manager, which is responsible to verify the validity of topology changes (distributed configuration changes),

Author: fixed

  before they are distributed on the domain

These nodes don't store any ledger data, but just facilitate the communication between the participants.

> In order to setup a synchronization domain, you need to decide what kind of driver you want to use for the sequencer.

Author: fixed

We provide drivers for different infrastructures types. These drivers have different levels of fidelity in terms of

> trust and performance. Your current options are

Author: fixed

> #. Postgres based domain

Author: fixed

#. :ref:`Oracle based domain <oracle-domain>`
#. Hyperledger Fabric based domain
#. Ethereum based domain

> and we are working on a native Canton BFT domain (which will power the `Canton Network <https://canton.network/>`__).

Author: i rephrased it.

> This section will explain how to setup a Postgres based synchronisation domain. Please consult :ref:`the Enterprise driver section <canton-enterprise-drivers>`

Author: fixed

with respect to the other drivers.

Using an Embedded Domain
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The simplest way to run a synchronization domain is to use the embedded configuration which runs all three processes
in a single node. Using the same storage (but different database name) as configured for the participant node,

> you can start the domain using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can start the domain using:
```

Author: fixed

.. code-block:: bash

    ./bin/canton -c config/domain.conf

The embedded domain is your only choice if you are using the community version of Canton. It supports crash recovery,
but not high availability.

Using Microservices
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you are using Daml Enterprise, you can start the domain processes as separate microservices:

.. code-block:: bash

    ./bin/canton daemon -c config/[mediator|sequencer|manager].conf

> But before the nodes work together, they need to be initialized and connected. Please consult the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the nodes work together, they need to be initialized and connected. Consult the
```

detailed guide :ref:`on how to bootstrap a domain <domain_bootstrapping>`.

Generally, you can connect the nodes using either the embedded console (if they run in the same process)
or through the remote console:

.. code-block:: bash

    ./bin/canton -c config/remote/mediator.conf,config/remote/manager.conf,config/remote/sequencer.conf

> Subsequently, you just run the boostrap command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subsequently, just run the boostrap command:
```

Author: fixed

.. code-block:: scala

    manager.setup.bootstrap_domain(sequencers.all, mediators.all)

Connect the Participant
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The final step is to connect the participant to the domain. Please refer to :ref:`the connectivity guide <sequencer_connections>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final step is to connect the participant to the domain. Refer to :ref:`the connectivity guide <sequencer_connections>`
```

Author: fixed

> for detailed instructions. In the simplest case, you just need to run the following command in the participants console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for detailed instructions. In the simplest case, you just need to run the following command in the participant's console:
```

Author: fixed

.. code-block:: scala

    participant.domains.connect("domain", "https://localhost:10018", certificatesPath = "config/tls/root-ca.crt")

> Here, we provide the certificate explicitly, as the self-signed test certificates are not trusted by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certificate is explicitly provided, as the self-signed test certificates are not trusted by default.
```

Author: fixed

Secure the APIs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. As with the participant node, all APIs bind by default to localhost. If you want to connect to your node from other
   machines, you need to bind to the right interface or to ``0.0.0.0``.
#. The administration API should be secured using client certificates as described in :ref:`TLS documentation section <tls-configuration>`.
#. The public API needs to be properly secured using TLS. Please follow the :ref:`corresponding instructions <public-api-configuration>`.

Next Steps
~~~~~~~~~~
The above configuration provides you with an initial setup. Without going into details, the next steps would be:

#. Control who can join the domain by :ref:`configuring the domain to be permissioned<permissioned-domains>` (default is "everyone can join").

> #. Configure :ref:`domain parameters <dynamic-domain-parameters>`, although we recommend using the defaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Configure :ref:`domain parameters <dynamic-domain-parameters>`; the defaults are recommended.
```

Author: i removed the entire sentence

> #. Create high availability setups for :ref:`your synchronisation domain <components-for-ha>` or

Author: fixed
